---
title:  "From Hero to Zero: My Path to OSCP"
date:   2019-01-12
categories: posts
tags: [posts]
excerpt: "How I went from a naive college kid who did not know there was more than one distribution of Linux, to an OSCP in less than a year- and debunking the stigma of OSCP."
---
Introduction:
---
"Wait, Kali Linux is the same thing as Linux?" I remember the sheer embarrassment hitting my face. This was me, a 20 year old novice in August of 2017 at one of my school's Cyber Defense Club meetings. In the world of information security, where there are ground breaking developments everyday- I had just came to the realization there is more than one distribution of Linux. In this moment I realized I was being left in the dust by my peers, and a change was needed. This is the first of many events that propelled me to the elation I felt when read the words "...allow us to be the first to congratulate you on your OSCP certification" in an email from Offensive Security. In this blog post I am going to elaborate a little on my background at the time I passed my OSCP in September, speak on my path to the cert, provide some resources I found useful, and debunk a few myths I encountered on my journey, that almost deterred me from the challenge.

Pre-PWK/OSCP Background
--
Let me preface this portion of the blog with this message- PWK is an acronym for Penetration Testing with Kali Linux. This is the accompanying course to the OSCP certification and it must be completed before an attempt at OSCP can be made. My journey to OSCP begins in November 2017, during my Thanksgiving break at school. I was three years into a degree into a cybersecurity undergraduate degree. Schooling was the extent of my knowledge at this point. In school, I only was ever interested in network functionality and implementation. I had never made any efforts outside of class at this point. The notion that I was going to be left behind my be peers led me to [Code Academy](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-the-command-line), where I took a course on learning the command line in Linux. This only increased my feelings of fervor. Completion of this course was what was probably the single most imporant thing I could have done. It gave me a foundation for Linux, without constantly wasting time searching. I was conversing with some peers about my new found Linux knowledge. At the conclusion of this talk, I found that maybe penetration testing was the road I was going to tread down next. And by tread, I mean walk blind folded, with both of my legs broken. I ***REALLY*** had no idea what I was doing at this point in my development. A friend told me that [Vuln Hub](https://www.vulnhub.com/) should be the next stone cast for me. I was instructed to learn and "practice" some exploitation methods on these machines. Looking back, what I am about to say is comical. The extent of my "exploitation" knowledge was I knew about this cool tool called "Metasploit." To me, Metasploit was this amazing tool that could audit any application in the world. It either meant I was going to get this magical, unauthorized command line session to another computer ***OR*** I was going to receive a message of "Exploit completed, but no session was created." I also knew that if I searched for an exploit in Metasploit and it had "Buffer Overflow" in the title, it was going to give me probably a 20 percent better chance of exploitation (in my mind, anyway). I didn't know what a buffer overflow was or why it worked, but that's what was going through my head. What is even funnier, is my friend gave me a list of machines to try out from Vuln Hub. If I got a shell, I celebrated in triumph. If I did not get a shell, I deemed the computer to be locked down and secure! After some explanation, coaching, deep breaths, late nights, and Mountain Dew Baja Blasts, I was semi-okay at Vuln Hub. I had managed to PWN about 4 machines at this point. Still an ambitious, hungry, and hopeful kid- I was researching on how to hone some of my new found skills. I found a place that would change my life forever in January of 2018 called [Hack The Box](https://www.hackthebox.eu/). Hack The Box is the single most important tool I came across in my development. From Janaury through March all I did was Hack The Box. Every. Single. Day. What makes Hack The Box unique, is that you have to "hack" your way in to the site. It is similar to Vuln Hub, but you do not download the vulnerable machines. You VPN into their network and attack machines remotley. The space on my SSD really thanked me for finding this place. I was doing Hack The Box day and night and I will attest, it was intregal in my OSCP certification. I will speak more on it in the resources section of this blog.

Enrollment
--
When March came around, I started becoming more confident. I REALLY layed off the Metasploit, and I was using what I consider to be proper methodologies. I was scanning for open ports on potential victim machines and then properly enumerating each port. If HTTP was open, I was using Burp Suie to see how data flowed through the application. I was using tools like Nikto, Gobuster, and the Nmap scripting engine to audit web applications for vulnerabilities. I was banner grabbing other ports for vulnerable versions of applications. I also found myself being more comfortable with privilege escalation. I was understanding more and more how Kernel exploits worked and compiling them more successfully. I was becoming keen on weak services on Windows and Linux that could lead to a privileged shell. I was also perfecting my **root.txt** dance (all of my Hack The Box readers will understand). I still was not where I am at today, nor where I needed to be. I knew at this point I ***HAD*** to be a penetration tester. It is what I loved and wanted to do. But how could I , a college student with no penetration testing experience, accomplish such a daunting feat? I looked up what credentials I needed online- and I came accross a slew of information security certifications. I came across CEH (I do not recommend this certificate, although it may be good for some), GPEN (expensive. Very, very expensive), CISSP, Security +, GCIH, and some others. But then I came accross this BEAST called OSCP. OSCP, after reading about it, was almost impossible to pass for someone in my shoes. People with years of experience fail the challenge. This made me want it more! I knew this would be my best shot. After about a month of reflection, prayer, and advice from others around me- I decided I wanted to do it.

Times up, let's do this
--
April 26th, 2018. "Thank you for your interest in Penetration Testing with Kali Linux, Please read this entire email carefullly as it containes very important information." I had just sumbitted my application to PWK! I was ready to ride the NOP sled to OSCP (Exploit Developement joke)! 
Let me fill you in on how busy I was at this time:
  1. I was working 40 hours a week as an intern
  2. I was driving 4 hours round trip, 3 days a week for a face to face course. This forced me to get in at 6 a.m. to work to 
     compensate the hours.
  3. I was also taking 3 other online courses.
  
I was now about to add another course to the total! Crazy, I know. I also do not share this message to come off as a martyr. I want it to be known- there is no excuse for not taking the plunge if you truly want it. If you talk about it, be about it! Many people ask me, "Connor how much time did you spend on PWK?" There are 3 paces you can select with PWK. 30, 60, or 90 days. I opted for 60 days. I spent 3 hours Monday through Friday doing coursework and labs. I then spent every waking moment on Saturday and Sunday doing the same. Having said that, I am human. There were some days I spent time watching movies, playing sports, or playing video games. This is the amount of dedication I found myself putting in. I would say I averaged around 30-40 hours a week on this beast. Remember though- this is a blog on someone who had no experience getting OSCP. A more seasoned verteran may be able to get away with less- but I wouldn't recommend it.


May 26th, 2018. PWK D-DAY.
--
A date that forever changed the course of my life- for the better. This was my start date for PWK. There are a plether of blogs out there for the technical content of PWK. I want to try to create an OSCP blog that is unique to my situation. This blog is going to talk about the following: what to expect and how to document. Documentation is the single more important thing with this course. To pass the OSCP exam, you have to submit a report. The OSCP exam consists of an undisclosed number of vulnerable machines in a network you have no prior knowledge of. Your grade will be determined by a committee of individuals from OffSec. They will read your report AND ONLY your report. Later in this blog, you will get more specifics about the exam and report- I just am stressing the importance of documentation. 
Here is what you can expect from PWK:
  1. Exploit Development


