---
title:  "Hands Up! Give Us the Stack! This Is a ROPpery!"
date:   2019-09-21
tags: [posts]
excerpt: "An introduction to utilizing Return Oriented Progamming to defeat Data Execution Prevention (DEP)"
---
Introduction
---
Over the years, the security community as a whole realized that there needed to be a way to stop exploit developers from easily executing malicious shellcode. Microsoft, over time, has implemented a plethora of intense exploit mitigations, such as: [EMET (the Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit)](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2458544/the-enhanced-mitigation-experience-toolkit), [CFG (Control Flow Guard)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/secbp/control-flow-guard), [Windows Defender Exploit Guard](https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2017/10/23/windows-defender-exploit-guard-reduce-the-attack-surface-against-next-generation-malware/), and [ASLR (Address Space Layout Randomization)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/reference/dynamicbase-use-address-space-layout-randomization?view=vs-2019).

[DEP](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/875352/a-detailed-description-of-the-data-execution-prevention-dep-feature-in), or Data Execution Prevention, is another one of those roadblocks that hinders exploit developers. This blog post will only focusing on defeating DEP, within a stack based data structure on Windows. 

A Brief Word About DEP
---
Windows XP SP2 32 bit was the first Windows operating system to ship DEP. Every version of Windows since then has included DEP, DEP, at a high level, gives memory two independent permission levels. They are:
- The ability to write to memory.

  __OR__

- The ability to execute memory.

But not both.

What this means, is that someone cannot write ___AND___ execute memory at the same time. This means a few things for exploit developers. Let's say you have a simple vanilla stack instruction pointer overwrite. Let's also say the first byte, and all of the following bytes of your payload, are pointed to by the stack pointer. Normally, a simple `jmp stack pointer` instruction would suffice- and it would rain shells. With DEP, it is not that simple. Since that shellcode is user introduced shellcode- you will be able to write to the stack. BUT, as soon as any execution of that user supplied shellcode is attempted- an access violation will occur, and the application will terminate.
