---
title:  "(UNDER CONSTRUCTION) Turning the Pages: Introduction to Memory Paging on Windows 10 x64"
date:   2020-04-26
tags: [posts]
excerpt: "Brief introduction to memory paging on Windows 10 x64 to help leverage bypassing SMEP via page table entries."
---
Introduction
---

`0xFFFFFFFF11223344` is an example of a virtual memory address, and anyone who spends a lot of time inside of a debugger may be familiar with this notion. "Oh, that address is somewhere in memory and references X" may be an inference someone makes about a memory address. I always wondered where this address schema came from. It wasn't until I started doing research into kernel mode mitigation bypasses that I realized learning where these virtual addresses originate from is a very importan concept. This blog will by no means serve as a complete guide to virtual and physical memory in Windows, as it could _EASILY_ be a multi series blog post. This blog is meant to serve as providing the prerequisite knowledge needed to do things like change permissions of a memory page in kernel mode with a vulnerability such as a write-what-where bug. Let's dive into memory paging, and see where these virtual memory addresses originate from and what we can learn from these seemingly obscured 8 bytes we stubmle accross so copiously.

Firstly, before we begin, if you want a full fledged low level explanation of nearly every aspect of memory in Windows (which far surpasses the scope of this blog post) I _HIGHLY_ suggest reading [_What Makes It Page?: The Windows 7 (x64) Virtual Memory Manager_](https://www.amazon.com/What-Makes-Page-Windows-Virtual/dp/1479114294) written by Enrico Martignetti. This blog post will just be a small introduction to give us enough prerequisite knowledge to look into page table entry overwrites to bypass mitigations such as SMEP and the NX (non-execute) bit in kernel mode memory. In addition, we will look at some ways we can use WinDbg to automate some of the more admittedly cumbersome steps in the memory paging process.

Let's get into it. Memory paging refers to
