---
title:  "(UNDER CONSTRUCTION) Exploit Development: Playing ROP'em COP'em Robots with WriteProcessMemory()"
date:   2020-07-11
tags: [posts]
excerpt: "Gaining code execution with WriteProcessMemory() via ROP and outlining the occasional need for Call-Oriented Programming."
---
Introduction
---
The other day on Twitter, I received a very kind and flattering [message](https://twitter.com/duff22b/status/1282014844338597888?s=20) about a previous [post](https://connormcgarr.github.io/ROP/) of mine on the topic of ROP. Thinking about this post, I recall utilizing `VirtualProtect()` and disabling ASLR system wide to bypass DEP. I also used an outdated debugger, Immunity Debugger, at the time and I wanted to expand on my previous work, with a little bit of a less documented ROP technique and WinDbg.

Why is ROP Important?
---
ROP/COP and other code reuse apparatuses are very important mitigation bypass techniques, due to their versatility. Binary exploit mitigations have come a long way since DEP. Notably, mitigations such as CFG, upcoming XFG, ACG, etc. have posed an increased threat to exploit writers as time has gone on. ROP _still_ has been the “swiss army knife” to keep binary exploits alive. ROP can result in arbitrary write and arbitrary read primitives- as we will see in the upcoming posts. Additionally, data only attacks with the implementation of ACG have become crucial. It is possible, although expensive from a technical perspective, to write payloads fully in ROP.

What This Blog Assumes and What This Blog _ISN'T_
---
If you are interested in a remote bypass of ASLR and a 64-bit version of bypassing DEP, I suggest reading a [previous blog](https://connormcgarr.github.io/eko2019-exe) of mine on this topic (although, undoubtedly, there are better blogs on this subject).

This blog does not address ASLR or 64-bit exploitation- and will be utilizing non-ASLR compiled modules, as well as the x86 [stdcall](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/cpp/stdcall?view=vs-2019) calling convention.

Why are these topics not being addressed? This post aims to focus on a different, less documented approach to executing code with ROP. As such, I find it useful to use the most basic, straightforward example to hopefully help the reader fully understand a concept. I am _fully_ aware that it is 2020 and I am well aware mitigations such as CFG are more common. However, the last step in exploitation, no matter HOW many mitigations there are, is bypassing DEP (in user mode or kernel mode). This post aims to address the latter portion of the last sentiment- and expects the reader already has an ASLR bypass primitive and a way to pivot to the stack.
